docs(menu): add showon and hide article (#1589)
telerik/blazor-docs: components/menu/show-hide-events.md

---

> title: Show & Hide Events

Reviewer: "Child Items Appearance" or "Sub-items Appearance"

> page_title: Menu - Show and Hide Events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
page_title: Menu - Show and Hide Menu Items
```

> description: Configure the Menu's appearance action using the ShowOn parameter and control when it disappears with the HideOn configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Configure the Menu's sub-items appearance by using the ShowOn parameter and control how they disappear through the HideOn option.
```

> slug: menu-show-hide-events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
menu-items-appearance
```

tags: telerik,blazor,menu,show,hide,events,hover,click,mouseleave,mouseenter
published: true
position: 3
---

> # Menu Show and Hide Events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Show and Hide Menu Items
```

1. The `ShowOn` parameter accepts a value from the `Telerik.Blazor.MenuShowEvent` enum:

    * `MouseEnter` - When the mouse cursor enters a Menu item, its children menu items will be displayed.
    * `Click` - When the user clicks/taps on a menu item, its children menu items will be displayed.

2. The `HideOn` parameter accepts a value from the `Telerik.Blazor.MenuHideEvent` enum:

    * `MouseLeave` - When the mouse cursor leaves the Menu item, its children items will disappear.
    * `Click`  The menu items will disappear when the user performs a click/tap. Clicking a specific menu item in the list or the parent menu item will not close the clicked menu items list. To change this behavior, use the [`CloseOnClick`]({%slug components/menu/overview%}#menu-parameters) parameter.

By default, the Menu items are shown on hover (mouseenter) over the Menu, and hidden on mouse leave.

> Changing the `ShowOn` & `HideOn` values dynamically at runtime is not supported at this stage.

> >caption Explore the show and hide events of the Menu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>caption Change the default appearance of the Menu sub-items.
```

                    {
                        Text ="item 1.3",
                        Items = new List<MenuItem>()
                        {
                            new MenuItem()
                            {
                                Text = "item 1.3.1",
                            },
                            new MenuItem()
                            {
                                Text = "item 1.3.2",
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
            },
            new MenuItem()
            {
                Text = "item 2",
                Items = new List<MenuItem>()
                {
                    new MenuItem()
                    {
                        Text = "item 2.1",
                    },
                    new MenuItem()
                    {
                        Text = "item 2.2",
                    }
                }
            }
        };

        base.OnInitialized();
    }

    public class MenuItem
    {
        public string Text { get; set; }
        public string Url { get; set; }
        public List<MenuItem> Items { get; set; }
    }
}
````

## Next Steps

> * [Explore Menu Templates]({%slug components/menu/templates%})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Explore the Menu Templates]({%slug components/menu/templates%})
```
